### C# 2

#### Generics

They’re probably most heavily used for
the following:
- Collections
- Delegates, particularly in LINQ
- Asynchronous code, where a Task<T> is a promise of a future value of type T
- Nullable value types

> You can think of a nongeneric declaration as one with generic arity 0.

c# 对范型的实现：

转化为 MSIL 时需要:

> MSIL自身只需声明和使用泛型类型，而无需关心其实例化；.NET是在运行时由CLR来实例化泛型类型的。
> ref: https://www.zhihu.com/question/27634924

CLR 运行时进行实例化

Methods and nested types can be generic, but all of the following have to be nongeneric:
- Fields
- Properties
- Indexers
- Constructors
- Events
- Finalizers

compiler will generate some type ...

##### Type constraints:

Reference type constraint—where T : class
Value type constraint—where T : struct
Constructor constraint—where T : new()
Conversion constraint—where T : SomeType

##### Nullable(value fields):
> Nullable<T> provides an implicit conversion from T to Nullable<T> and an explicit conversion from Nullable<T> to T
- struct constraint
- 

C# allows the following operators to be overloaded:
- Unary: + ++ - -- ! ~ true false
- Binary: + - * / % & | ^ << >>
- Equality: == !=
- Relational: < > <= >=

A few restrictions apply:
- The true and false operators are never lifted. They’re incredibly rare in the
first place, though, so this is no great loss.
- Only operators with non-nullable value types for the operands are lifted.
- For the unary and binary operators (other than equality and relational operators),
the return type of the original operator has to be a non-nullable value type.
- For the equality and relational operators, the return type of the original operator
has to be bool.
- The & and | operators on Nullable

##### Iterators

If the return type is one of the nongeneric
interfaces, the yield type is object.

An IEnumerable is a sequence that can be iterated over, whereas an IEnumerator is like a cursor within a sequence.

**Implementation Sketch**
The compiler generates a whole new type for you to implement the relevant interfaces.
Your method body is moved into a MoveNext() method in this generated type and
adjusted for the execution semantics of iterators.

-3, -2, -1, 0, ... or some other orders ...

> In C#5 with async/await:
> where instead of pausing until the MoveNext() is called again, asynchronous methods effectively pause until an asynchronous operation has completed


##### Minor features

**Partial types**

Divide single class ... into multi part.
When there’s no implementation, the functions will be ignored.

**Static classes**

Static classes have additional special behavior in that extension methods (introduced
in C# 3) **can be declared only in non-nested, nongeneric, static classes**.

**Separate getter/setter access for properties**

**Namespace aliases**

using WinForms = System.Windows.Forms;

WebForms::Button

**Fixed-size buffer**

> IMPROVED ACCESS TO FIXED-SIZED BUFFERS IN FIELDS IN C# 7.3 Listing 2.26 demonstrated accessing a fixed-sized buffer via a local variable. If the versioned variable had been a field instead, accessing elements of versioned.Data would’ve required a fixed statement to create a pointer prior to C# 7.3. As of C# 7.3, you can access fixed-sized buffers in fields directly, although the code still needs to be in an unsafe context.
